# Mthodes

Another thing that makes classes useful is that they can have methods! A method is just a function that's tied directly to a class and has access to its properties. See the take_damage method here:

``` python
class Soldier:
    health = 5

    # This is a method that reduces the
    # health of the soldier
    def take_damage(self, damage):
        self.health -= damage

soldier_one = Soldier()
soldier_one.take_damage(2)
print(soldier_one.health)
# prints "3"

soldier_two = Soldier()
soldier_two.take_damage(1)
print(soldier_two.health)
# prints "4"
```

## Self

Methods are defined within the class declaration. Their first parameter is always the instance of the class that the method is being called on. By convention, it's called "self", and because self is a reference to the object, you can use it to read and update the properties of the object.

Notice that methods are called directly on an object instance using the dot operator:

``` python
my_object.my_method()
```

## Methods Can Return

If a normal function doesn't return anything, it's typically not a very useful function. In contrast, methods often don't return anything because they can mutate (update) the properties of the object instead. 

However, they can return values if you want! They're just functions with access to an object, after all. A common use case is a "getter" method that returns a calculated value based on the properties of the object.

``` python
class Soldier:
    armor = 2
    num_weapons = 2

    def get_speed(self):
        speed = 10
        speed -= self.armor
        speed -= self.num_weapons
        return speed

soldier_one = Soldier()
print(soldier_one.get_speed())
# prints "6"
```

## Methods vs. Functions

You know what a function is, and a method is the exact same thing, it's just tied directly to a class and has access to the properties of the object.

A method automagically receives the object it was called on as its first parameter:

``` python
class Soldier:
    health = 100

    def take_damage(self, damage, multiplier):
        # "self" is dalinar in the first example
        #
        damage = damage * multiplier
        self.health -= damage

dalinar = Soldier()
# "damage" and "multiplier" are passed explicitly as arguments
# 20 and 2, respectively
# "dalinar" is passed implicitly as the first argument, "self"
dalinar.take_damage(20, 2)
print(dalinar.health)
# 60

adolin = Soldier()
# Again, "adolin" is passed implicitly as the first argument, "self"
# "damage" and "multiplier" are passed explicitly as arguments
adolin.take_damage(10, 3)
print(adolin.health)
# 70
```

A method can operate on data that is contained within the class. In other words, you won't always see all the "outputs" in the return statement because the method might just mutate the object's properties directly.

### The OOP Debate

Because functions are more explicit, some developers argue that functional programming is better than object-oriented programming. Neither paradigm is "better". The best developers learn and understand both styles and use them as they see fit.

While methods are more implicit (an object's properties are changed from within), they also make it easier to group a program's data and behavior in one place, which can lead to a more organized codebase. It's tradeoffs all the way down.