# Variable Basic
A variable in Python is like a label you stick on a box so you can refer to what's inside later. In Python, you would do that by writing:
``` python
age = 25 # age is the variable name and 25 is the value (data)
```
> Note:I named the variable "age," but you can choose any name you like.

When you write this, python creates a box(variable) with name 
`age` and stores 25 in that box(variable).

- This process of creating a variable to store a value is called **Declaration** and
- The process of setting its value for the first time is called **Initialization**.

In Python, a variable:
- Points to a value in memory.
- Can be updated any time.
- Doesn't need a fixed typen (Python is dynamically typed, which means you do not need to specify the data type; it can decide on its own.)

## Example Program
This Program prints the product information for a store. Product information, including `product name`, `product ID`, `price`, and `quantity`, is available. uses these variables to print the product information using `print()` statements.

``` python
# Separate variables for product info.
product_name = "Diet Coke"
product_ID = 10023
price = 120
quantity = 89

# Print Statements
print(product_name)
print(product_ID)
print(price)
print(quantity)
```

## Assignment

Make a program that prints student information for an exam.

Store the following details in separate variables:

- Student name

- Roll number

- Subject name

- Exam score

Use the variables to display the complete exam information using `print()` statement.

The final output should clearly show all the stored details.

``` python
# TODO

# Print Statment
print(f"Student Name: {student_name} \nRoll Number: {roll_no} \nSubject Name: {sub_name} \nExam Score: {exam_score}%")
```

Expected Output:
``` bash
Student Name: Rahul
Roll Number: 201
Subject Name: English
Exam Score: 95%
```