# NoneType in Python

In Python, We can make an "empty" variable by setting it to `None`. None is a special value in Python that represents the absence of a value. It is not the same as zero, False, or an empty string.

``` python
x = None
print(x) # Output: None
```
> Note: We can give the real value to the variable later.

## Key Characteristics:

**Singleton:** Only one None object exists in memory. (All variables that has a value of NoneType points to a same memory location.)

**Type:** Its type is NoneType.

**Usage:** Often used as a default value for variables, function arguments, or to indicate "no result".

**Boolean Context:** Evaluates to False in conditional statements.

**Return Value:** Functions without an explicit return statement return None by default.

**Example Usage:**
``` python
# Assigning None
x = None

# Checking if a variable is None
if x is None:
print("x has no value")

# Function returning None implicitly
def do_nothing():
pass

print(do_nothing()) # Output: None
```

## Best Practices:

- Use `is None` or `is not None` for comparisons instead of `==`.
``` python
if value is None: # ✅
    ...

if value == None: # ❌
    ...
```

- Be mindful of functions that may return None and handle such cases explicitly.

- Avoid overwriting variables with None unless intentionally resetting them.

## Example Program
``` python
user_name = None
for i in range(2):
    if user_name is None:
        user_name = input("What's your name? ")
    else:
        print(f"Hello, {user_name}")
```

## Assignment
You are given a variable that currently does not store any value.

- Declare a variable named status and assign it the value `None`.

- Print the value of status.

- Change the value of status to a string that represents a system state (for example: "Active").

- Use an if statement to check whether status is still None or not, and print an appropriate message.