
# Introduction to Programming

Programming is the art of telling a computer what to do. Computers are powerful machines, but they can't think or make decisions on their own—they only follow the instructions we give them. To make a computer perform any task, we must write clear, step-by-step instructions that it can understand. These instructions, written in a programming language, guide the computer through each action, ensuring it knows exactly what to do, when to do it, and how to do it. Without these precise steps, a computer would be unable to solve problems or complete tasks, no matter how powerful it is.

## Get Started With Programming

To master programming, you need to learn core concepts first.
These are 5 core programming concepts.
- Variable and Data Types
- Conditionals
- Loop
- Functions
- Error Handling

## Programming Language
Programming languages are special languages designed to communicate instructions to a computer. Since computers don’t understand human languages, we use programming languages to write commands in a structured and logical way. Each language has its own rules (called syntax) and is created for specific types of tasks. For example, Python is great for beginners and general-purpose programming, JavaScript is used for web development, C and C++ are used for system-level tasks, and Java is commonly used for large applications.

## Python Programming Language
Python is a high-level, **interpreted programming language** created by **Guido van Rossum** and first released in **1991**. It is known for its readability and simplicity, making it an excellent choice for both beginners and experienced developers. Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including procedural, object-oriented, and functional programming.



```Python
  Print("Hello") #Output: Hello
```

