# Variable Naming Conventions
Python, known for its simplicity and readability, places a strong emphasis on writing clean and maintainable code. One of the key aspects contributing to this readability is adhering to Python Naming Conventions.

## What is Naming Conventions in Python?
Naming conventions in Python refer to rules and guidelines for naming variables, functions, classes, and other entities in your code. Adhering to these conventions ensures consistency, readability, and better collaboration among developers.

## Variable Naming Techniques
Variable naming techniques are essential for writing clean, maintainable, and scalable code. Here are some common techniques and best practices for variable naming in Python:

_**Descriptive Name:**_ Use names that describe the variable purpose, such as age, carname, or User_name.

_**Case Sensitivity:**_ Variable names are case - sensitive in `Python`.
``` python
CAR = "Audi"
car = "TATA Nano"
print(CAR) # Output: Audi
print(car) # Output: TATA Nano
```
> Note: The variables `CAR` and `car` have different values because uppercase and lowercase letters are treated differently.

_**Avoid Reserved Keywords:**_ Ensure that variable names do not conflict with Python's reserved keywords. like `Print`, `float`,`class`, etc.

```python
class = 10 # ❌ this will throw error becouse "class" is a reserved word
```
```python
Student_Class = 10 # ✅ 
```

_**Consistent Naming Conventions:**_ Choose a naming style (`camelCase`, `PascalCase`, `snake_case`, `kebab-case`) and stick with it throughout your

## Naming Conventions
The creator of the Python language himself, [Guido van Rossum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guido_van_Rossum), Tell us to use `snake_case` for variable names. What is snake case? It's just a style for writing variable names. Here are some examples of different casing styles:

| Name |  Description  | Code | Language(s) that recommend it |
|:-----|:--------:|------:|------:|
| Snake Case   | All words are lowercase and separated by underscores | `num_new_users` |Python, Ruby, Rust|
| Camel Case   |  Capitalize the first letter of each word except the first one  |`numNewUsers`|JavaScript, Java|
| Pascal Case   | Capitalize the first letter of each word |    `NumNewUsers` |C#, C++|

## Rules of Naming Variabes

To use variables effectively, we must follow Python’s naming rules:
- Variable names can only contain letters, digits and underscores ( _ ).
- Variable names must not have spaces. They're continuous strings of characters.
- A variable name cannot start with a digit.
- Variable names are case-sensitive like myVar and myvar are different.
- Avoid using Python keywords like if, else, for as variable names.

Wrong Way to name variables ❌:
``` python
dollar$ = 5.0  
user name = "Rohit"
1car = "Audi"
if = 12
```

Correct Way to name variables ✅:
``` python
dollar = 5.0
user_name = "Rohit"
car1 = "Audi"
if_class = 12
```