# Text Data Type

In Python, the data type used for **handling text is the string**, represented by the built-in class `str`. Strings are an immutable sequence of [Unicode](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/unicode.html) characters and are fundamental for working with textual data in Python programs. 

A string is a **sequence of characters**, such as letters, numbers, symbols, or spaces, enclosed within quotes.

``` python
text = "Hello, à¤¨à¤®à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥‡, ä½ å¥½, ðŸ˜Š"
print(text)
```

In this example:
- `text` is a variable that stores  `Hello, à¤¨à¤®à¤¸à¥à¤¤à¥‡, ä½ å¥½, ðŸ˜Š` string.
- The string can be any sequence of characters as long as it is enclosed in quotation marks.


**Key Characteristics of the str Type:**
- Strings are **immutable** (cannot be changed after creation)
- Each character in a string has a position (index)
-Strings can contain **letters**, **numbers**, and **special characters**

## Creating String

Strings can be created using either single `' '` or double `" "` quotes. Both behave the same.
Example: Creating two equivalent strings, one with single and the other with double quotes.

``` python
a = 'Python is best!!'
b = "Python is best!!"
print(a)
print(b)
```
> Note: Both **single and double quotes work the same** way. `" "` Double quotes are often preferred when the text contains a `' '` single quote.

**Multi-line Strings (Triple Quotes):**

Triple quotes `''' '''` or `""" """` allow you to create strings that span multiple lines.

``` python
paragraph = """This is a multi-line string.
It can contain multiple lines
and line breaks."""
```
Output:
``` bash
This is a multi-line string.
It can contain multiple lines
and line breaks.
```
Multi-line strings are commonly used for:
- Long text
- Documentation
- Messages and descriptions

## String Slicing 

String slicing is used to **extract the part of a string**. It allows you to get a **substring from a string using a specific range**.

Syntax:
``` python
string[start: end: step]
```
- `start` â†’ starting index (included)
- `end` â†’ ending index (excluded)
- `step` â†’ gap between characters (optional)

**Example:**

``` python
text = "PythonProgramming"

print(text[:6])     # Python
print(text[0:6])    # Python
print(text[7:])     # Programming
print(text[::2])    # PtoPormig (Skip every second character)
print(text[::-1])   # gnimmargorPnohtyP (Reverse the string)
```

## Common String Operations

String Support many basic operations that help in text manipulation.

**Concatenation:**

Joining two or more strings.
``` python
first = "Hello"
second = "World"

print(first + " " + second) # Output: Hello World
```

**Repetition:**

Repeting a string multiple times.

``` python
text = "Hi"

print(text * 3) # Output: Hi Hi Hi
```

## Membership Operators

Checking whether a character or substring exists in string.

``` python
text =  "Python"

print("P" in text)          # True
print("Java" not in text)   # True
```

## String Method

Python provides many built-in methods to work with and modify strings (without changing the original string).

**Case Converstion Methods:**

``` python
text = "python"
print(text.upper()) # PYTHON
print(text.lower()) # python
print(text.title()) # Python (Only make first letter in upper case)
```

**Whitespace Methods:**

Remove Whitespace from the string at the start and end of the string.

``` python
text = " hello "
print(text.strip()) # Output: hello
```

**Search and Replace Methods:**

``` python
text = "I Love Java"
print(text.replace("Java", "Python"))   # I Love Python
print(text.find("Love"))                # 2 (Love is in 2nd place)
```

> [!NOTE]
> Strings are immutable, so string methods return new strings instead of modifying the original.