## Sequence Data Type

Sequence data types in Python are used to store **multiple values** in a single variable in an ordered way. Each value in a sequence has a **fixed position**, called an `index`, which allows you to access elements easily.

Sequence data types are commonly used when you need to:

- Store a collection of data
- Access elements using position
- Loop through multiple values

**Key Features of Sequence Data Types:**

- **Ordered:** Elements maintain a specific order
- **Indexed:** Each element has an index (starting from 0)
- **Iterable:** Can be looped using a for loop
- **Supports slicing:** Can extract parts of the sequence

**Example:**

``` python
numbers = [10, 20, 30, 40]
print(numbers[0])  # Output: 10
```
> [!NOTE]
> Sequence data types allow you to work with multiple values efficiently and in an organized manner.

## Types of Sequence Data Types in Python

Python provides **two main sequence data types**, each designed for different use cases.

### 1. List (`list`):

Used to store multiple items in a single variable.

``` python
items = [1, 2, 3, "apple"]
```

- Mutable (can be changed)
- Can store mixed data types

### 2. Tuple (`tuple`)

Used to store multiple items that should not be changed.

``` python
coordinates = (10, 21)
```

- Immutable
- Faster than list

> [!NOTE]
> Choosing the right sequence type helps you write **clean**, **efficient**, and **professional** Python code.

## Indexing in Sequence Data Types

Indexing allows you to **access individual elements** in a list or tuple using their position (index).
Indexing in both **lists and tuples works the same way**.

**Indexing Rules:**
- Indexing starts from `0`
- Negative indexing starts from `-1` (last element)

**Indexing in List:**

``` python
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "mango"]

print(fruits[0])    # apple
print(fruits[1])    # banana
print(fruits[-1])   # mango
```

**Indexing in Tuple:**

``` python
colors = ("red", "green", "blue")

print(colors[0])   # red
print(colors[2])   # blue
print(colors[-1])  # blue
```

> [!NOTE]
> - Accessing an index that does not exist will raise an error. 
> ``` python
> print(colors[10]) # Output: IndexError
> ```
> - Both lists and tuples support indexing, but **only lists allow modification of elements**.

## Slicing in Sequence Data Types

Slicing is used to extract a portion of a list or tuple.

**Slicing Syntax:**

``` python
sequence[start: end: step]
```

- `start` → starting index (included)
- `end` → ending index (excluded)
- `step` → gap between elements (optional)

**Slicing a List:**

``` python
numbers = [10, 20, 30, 40, 50]

print(numbers[1:4])   # [20, 30, 40]
print(numbers[:3])    # [10, 20, 30]
print(numbers[::2])   # [10, 30, 50]
```

**Slicing a Tuple:**

``` python
values = (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)

print(values[1:4])    # (2, 3, 4)
print(values[:2])     # (1, 2)
print(values[::-1])   # (5, 4, 3, 2, 1)
```

**Important Note: **

- Slicing returns a **new list or tuple**
- Original sequence remains **unchanged**

> [!NOTE]
> Indexing accesses a single element, while slicing extracts multiple elements from lists and tuples.

## Iterating Over List and Tuple

Iteration mean **accessing each element of a sequence one by one**.
Both list and tuple can be iterated using **loops**.

### Iterating using a `for` loop

``` python
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "grapes"]

for fruit in fruits:
    print(fruit)
```
**Using `range()` with Index:**

``` python
nums = (10, 20, 30)

for i in range(len(nums)):
    print(nums[i])
```

### Iterating using `while` loop

``` python
values = (1, 2, 3)

while i < len(values):
    print(values[i])
    i += 1
```

> [!NOTE]
> Iteration allows you to process, display, or modify (list only) each element in a sequence.

## Sequence Operations (List and Tuple)

Sequence operations allow you to **combine**, **repeat**, and **compare** lists and tuples.

**Concatenation(`+`):**

Joins two sequence of the same type

``` python
list_1 = [1, "cat"]
list_2 = ["dog", 2]
print(list_1 + list_2) # [1, 'cat', 'dog', 2]
```

**Repetition (`*`):**

Repeats a sequence multiple time.

``` python
print([1, 2] * 3)   # [1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2]
print((1, 2) * 2)   # (1, 2, 1, 2)
```

**Comparison:**

Sequence are compared element by element.

``` python
a = (1, 2)
b = (1, 3)

print(a == b)   # False
print(a != b)   # True
print(a < b)    # True
print(a > b)    # False
```
> [!NOTE]
> - Both sequences must be of the same type for these operations.
> - Use `==` for exact match (order + duplicates matter).

