# Abstraction Basics 

Abstraction helps us handle complexity by hiding unnecessary details.

> ... which sounds just like encapsulation, the ideas are so similar that it's almost not worth worrying about the difference...almost.

## Abstraction vs. Encapsulation

- Abstraction is about **creating a simple interface** for complex behavior. It focuses on **what's exposed** (public).

- Encapsulation is about **hiding internal state**. It focuses on **tucking away the implementation details** (private).

**Abstraction** is more about **reducing complexity**, **encapsulation** is more about maintaining the **integrity of system internals**.

The terms "abstraction" and "encapsulation" mostly just emphasize different aspects of the same concept:

- Abstraction focuses on exposing essential features while hiding complexity
- Encapsulation focuses on bundling data with methods and restricting direct access to implementation details

Creating good abstractions is particularly crucial when you're developing libraries for other developers to use. For example, the built-in `pow` function in Python is an abstraction that hides the complexity of calculating `exponents`.

`pow` isn't magic. Somewhere, code that does something like this exists and is called when you use `pow`.

``` python
def pow(base, exponent):
    result = 1
    for _ in range(exponent):
        result *= base
    return result
```


## Are We Encapsulating or Abstracting?

We are almost always doing both. Here's an example of using the random library to generate a random number:

``` python
import random

attack_damage = random.randrange(5)
```

Generating random numbers is a really hard problem. The operating system uses the physical hardware of the computer to create a seed for the randomness. However, the developers of the `random` library have abstracted that complexity away and encapsulated it within the simple `randrange` function. We just say "I want a random number from 0 to 4" and the library does it.

When writing libraries for other developers to use, getting the abstractions right is critical because changing them later can be disastrous. Imagine if the maintainers of the `random` module changed the input parameters to the `randrange` function! It would break code used by thousands of applications around the world.

