# Inheritance

**Non-OOP languages** like `Go` and `Rust` support **encapsulation** and **abstraction**... almost every language does. **Inheritance**, on the other hand, is typically unique to **class-based languages** like `Python`, `Java`, and `Ruby`.

## What is Inheritance?

Inheritance is a fundamental concept in object-oriented programming (OOP) that allows a class (called a child or derived class) to **inherit attributes and methods from another class** (called a parent or base class).

It's a way to share code between classes. For example, say we have this Aircraft class:

``` python
class Aircraft:
    def __init__(self, height, speed):
        self.height = height
        self.speed = speed

    def fly_up(self):
        self.height += self.speed
```

And say we want to also model more specific kinds of aircraft. We could create a more specific `Helicopter` class like this:

``` python
class Helicopter:
    def __init__(self, height, speed):
        self.height = height
        self.speed = speed
        self.direction = 0

    def fly_up(self):
        self.height += self.speed

    def rotate(self):
        self.direction += 90
```

Trouble is, we've rewritten a lot of the same code twice... wouldn't it be nice if a `Helicopter` could just take all the behavior from an `Aircraft`, and then just add its own unique behavior on top of that? Well, it can! We'll just make `Helicopter` a child class of `Aircraft`:

``` python
class Helicopter(Aircraft):
    def __init__(self, height, speed):
        super().__init__(height, speed)
        self.direction = 0

    def rotate(self):
        self.direction += 90
```

By adding `Aircraft` in parentheses after `Helicopter`, we're saying "make `Helicopter` a child class of `Aircraft`". Now `Helicopter` inherits all the properties and methods of `Aircraft`!

The `super()` method returns a proxy of the parent class, meaning we can use it to call the parent class's constructor and other methods. So the `Helicopter`'s constructor says "first, call the `Aircraft` constructor, and then additionally set the `direction` property".

Now, say we want to create a `Jet` class. Again, because all jets are aircraft, we can inherit from `Aircraft` again. One parent class can have as many child classes as you want.

``` python
class Jet(Aircraft):
    def __init__(self, speed):
        # Jets always start on the ground
        super().__init__(0, speed)

    def go_supersonic(self):
        self.speed *= 2
```